---
title: "Finding Stuff to Read"
description: "TODO"
date: "13 Feb 2026"
---

As you've probably [already know](/now), I kinda quite like reading. I read books, articles, and whatever I can get my hands on.

For reading books, I can't really say much about it. Just [read whatever book you want](https://maraoz.com/read/).

Now, in this short article I want to share how I find stuff to read, on the Internet.

## My Interests

Since I am a software engineer, I do like to read about technology and software engineering in particular. If you like me, you might find these stuff interesting:

- [Simon Willison's blog](https://simonwillison.net/): he pimarily talks about AI. But his daily "TILs" and "daily updates"[^1] are quite interesting to skim as well.
- [The Pragmatic Engineer Newsletter](https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/): in my own opinion, this would be suitable for those of you that likes to read in sort of like "interview" style format[^2]
- [Product for Engineers by PostHog](https://newsletter.posthog.com/): now among other two above, I would argue you might not expect this one. But trust me, if you are a software engineer that is interested in product management, this newsletter is a must-read. It has a lot of interesting content about product management, and it is written by engineers for engineers. So you can expect to find a lot of technical content in there as well.

[^1]: I just called it "daily updates", but I don't know if that's the actual name. I just know that he posts something short almost every day.

[^2]: Well, arguably, there are a lot of interviews in the newsletter itself
