+++
title = "Over-documenting"
description = "On over-documenting your work."
date = "17 Jun 2024"
+++

# Over-documenting
`17 Jun 2024`

In terms of working on a codebase daily, if there's one thing that I wish I'd done sooner, and also wished that the engineers before and that still works with me, is to over-document everything.

By the statement above, I hope you can already understand what I am talking about. With complete documentation, you can easily find out what a function does, what it returns, what parameters it takes, and what it throws. It's like a book that you can read and understand.

Some might even call it a ["documentation-driven development"](https://x.com/lemmster/status/1575174596768452612).

## The challenges

But, I can see a few challenges that we might face in order to make it into a reality:

1. Structure

It's become a shamble if lengthy documentation doesn't have any meaningful and understandable structure. If it's a novel, it's like you jump to a different act on each page. It doesn't make sense at all.

For this, I personally really favouring the [Diátaxis](https://diataxis.fr/) framework. It's built by developers and really puts developer needs in mind. But, it is still versatile enough to be suited to each team.

2. Maintainability

Once you have put a lot of "content" in your docs, maintaining it and keeping up to date with the real system is a challenge. And no, if you think that making autogenerated documentation from the codebase is the solution, it's far from being sufficient (read [here to dig more](https://diataxis.fr/reference/#reference-as-description)).

For this one, I can only think that habit and discipline are the only key. I might be wrong on this one, but that's all I got for now.
