+++
title = "Can You Afford Your Ideal Engineering Culture?"
description = "A point-of-view that is rarely being considered by engineering leaders."
date = "17 Feb 2024"
+++

I have recently had a casual talk with my CTO about a lot of things. Starts from random things about the current political situation, and somehow ends up in a conversation about team culture, habits, and how managers should approach it.

## What's Up With It?

An engineering culture might be as important as the product that the team build itself. I have recently read an article about [balancing engineering culture](https://www.fishmanafnewsletter.com/p/balancing-engineering-cultures-debate-vs-do) and realised that there are a ton of ideas, approaches, and priorities towards this topic and of course, there are a lot of _pieces_ that often time being ignored.

Which one is the 'right' approach?

Well, just like a lot of things that are being asked of an engineer, the answer is always the same: _it depends_.

But, in this journal, I'd like to talk about the other aspects of developing engineering culture that oftentimes are being set aside (even ignored) by engineering leaders.

> Can you even afford the engineering culture that you want?

## Everything Have a Cost

Developing a culture in a team is highly dependent on tons of factors. But you my dear readers, whatever your position is, thou shall not ignore the following criteria while developing a culture:

- **P**eoples (conditions, skillset, etc)
- **P**roducts (complexity, mission-criticality, etc)
- **P**riorities (roadmap, business direction, etc)

In the startup world, many teams are trying to follow the culture of _"build fast, fail fast"_ which prioritises the speed of iteration.

If you're part of (or even leading) that team, can you really afford it?

Building fast and failing fast often comes with a cost that your product is buggy, poorly documented, and has questionable performance. Technically, it also requires a great understanding of your tech stack, great CI/CD, and other supporting tools to really achieve that. Can you afford it?

On the other side, in the big teams, a lot of them follow the culture: _"everything is urgent, but everything moves really slow"_ mentality.

Can you afford it?

## Consideration

A lot of people coin a different term for this aspect, such as a _trade-off_. Whatever terms that you use, and whatever culture you want to grow within your team, there's no such thing as a perfect culture.

And it's (might be) part of your jobs, my dear friends, to lead your team forward to a better place.
