+++
title = "The Elves Way"
description = "An Elves vs Humans perspective on working"
date = "05 Jun 2025"
+++

# The Elves Way
`05 Jun 2025`

I found it a really interesting to observe how peoples "work". And inevitably, compared it to how I work.

The way I work have always (and will always be) evolving. But, recently, it's intrigue me how different it is each individual takes on prioritization.

## The Elves and The Humans

If you've ever read (or at the very least watched the movie) [The Lord of The Rings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Lord_of_the_Rings) (or watched any medieval-theme sci-fi movies or any [*isekai* animes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Isekai) for that matter), you must be familiar with [the Elven races](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elves_in_fiction) and the Human races (basically us).

The Elves, are not "lazy" per se. But, since they have longer (like really longer) life spans than humans, they tend to be (what I would call) "slow-moving" creatures. Humans, on the other hand, are more like "get things done" creatures. With a shorter life-span, we in general sought to achieve great things in [such a short period of time](https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/life-weeks.html).

I would not blame the elves for their slow moving ass. It's just their privilaged[^1]. They can afford to deprioritizing things easily, since they can pay for it: with their time.

## The Reality

Those analogies start to pop out around me a lot. I try to understand why people choose to do A instead of B. I realized that they simply choose to prioritize A since in their world, A is *more important and they can afford it* with whatever resources they have[^2].

Not gonna lie, often times it feels weird for me like *"Why are they putting A as something more important?"*. I often doesn't get an answer for that. But, I simply think that they might be an elf, a human with different background than me, maybe they're a [PSD](https://x.com/kennandavison/status/1903498448109707655/photo/1) or even an entirely different creatures.

[^1]: Or maybe a curse?
[^2]: Resources could be anything from time, literal money, energy, attention, etc.
